When you set out to start a new blog, there's no shortage of options to use for your content management
system, that is the platform you use to build your Web site and actually publish content.
I'm going to be straightforward here and say there's really no contest.
WordPress is the best choice for the vast majority of bloggers.
I've been using WordPress for many years.
My businesses rely on it and I really believe it's the single best solution for building a blog or Web
site.
In today's world, it's free to use its extensible with a world of free themes and plug ins, and it
doesn't require a lot of technical knowledge to get started.
If you can use a computer, you can build a website with WordPress.
WordPress is the most popular content management system in the world, and it powers more than 32 percent
of all sites on the Web.
Just to give you some examples, here are some people and brands you've probably heard of whose websites
and blogs are powered by WordPress.
So we've got TechCrunch, The Wall Street Journal, Forbes, TED, the NFL, Mashable, The New York
Times, the next Web, PlayStation, Fortune, Mercedes Benz, Coca-Cola, Harvard Business Review,
Beyonce, Usain Bolt, Snoop Dogg, Katy Perry and many, many others.
As you can see, you'll be in great company if you choose WordPress for your blog.
Now, I should clarify that I'm talking about the self hosted version of WordPress from WordPress,
dawg, not WordPress, dot com WordPress, Digg and WordPress, dotcom are different things.
And I know that's pretty confusing.
So let's just take a moment to clear up the difference.
So WordPress dot com is a fully hosted service that you can sign up for to build a blog or Web site
without having to manage the underlying technology yourself.
WordPress, dawg, is where you can download the free WordPress software and install it on your own
Web server.
I really like this explanation from the Daily Post blog on WordPress Dotcom having a blog or website
here on WordPress.
Dotcom is a bit like renting an apartment in a complex.
You don't have to worry about the pipes freezing in winter.
You don't have to mow the backyard and you don't have to fix the dishwasher if it breaks.
All of that is your landlord's job.
But on the other hand, you can't install skylights, knock down a wall to combine two rooms or rent
out your spare bedroom without the landlord's permission.
Similarly, here at WordPress Dotcom, we support your site and we take care of all the updates, the
backups and the security.
But since all of our users share this platform, we don't permit you to use plug ins since they can
introduce security risks or outside themes.
And there are a few terms of service that we require our bloggers to follow to keep WordPress dotcom
nice for everybody.
When you move to a self posted WordPress site, it's like buying your own house.
You can knock down the walls or build an extension.
You can rent out your garage for practice space to a local band.
You can keep a lion in the backyard.
But if your heat goes out in the middle of winter, you have to fix it or hire someone who can.
If you sell those, you can install all the plug ins you want.
But if one of them breaks your site, you have to figure out how to fix it.
Luckily, WordPress Dawg has a great support forum with many knowledgeable and helpful volunteers.
You're also responsible for performing routine updates and backing up your content, but the only rules
you're bound by are your own.
My recommendation and what we'll focus on in this course is self hosted WordPress.
It's better suited for serious blogs for a variety of reasons, one of which being that most of the
business models we cover later are incompatible with WordPress dotcom.
We're going to spend a lot of time in this section covering the process of installing and setting up
WordPress.
But if you decide to go with another platform, don't worry, there's a lot more to this course than
just WordPress.
So feel free to skip ahead.